Bort client/server docs (#198)
memfault/memfault-docs: docs/android/android-multi-device-support.mdx

---
id: android-multi-device-support
title: Android Multi-Device Support
sidebar_label: Multi-Device Support
---

> Some products might consist of multiple Android devices connected together,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your product might consist of multiple Android devices connected together,
```

Docs are read by a customer who (initially) cares about their first product with Memfault.

device - this ensures that Bort on both devices is always fully remotely
configurable.

## Enabling Client-Server connectivity

This mode is disabled by default. To enable, there are two configuration steps:

### Configure Client-Server system property on each device

Set a system property (`vendor.memfault.bort.client.server.mode`) on each of the
devices, describing its role. This might be set in a `product.mk` file specific
to each device e.g.:

```
PRODUCT_PROPERTY_OVERRIDES += vendor.memfault.bort.client.server.mode=server
```

or

```
PRODUCT_PROPERTY_OVERRIDES += vendor.memfault.bort.client.server.mode=client
```

If this property is absent, or not set to either `server` or `client` then the
client-server feature is disabled.

:::info

This property is configured individually per device. A system property is used
for this reason (so that the Bort SDK does not have to be configured/compiled
separately for each device).

:::

### Configure socket communication parameters

Set the `CLIENT_SERVER_PORT` and `CLIENT_SERVER_HOST` parameters in
`bort.properties`. The _server_ device must be able to listen for connections on

> this port, and the _client_ devices must be able to communicate with the

Reviewer: Might be worth calling out at which times, for how long and with which (re-)connect strategies the communication will happen.

_server_ using this hostname and port.

The Bort `UsageReporter` persistent service on the _server_ device will listen
for connections on this host/port, and on _client_ devices will attempt to
establish a connection with the _server_ device.

:::info

This property is configured as part of the Bort build - this enables the use of
the same Bort/UsageReporter apks on each of the devices (i.e. it is _not_
required to maintain/build separately configured versions of the Bort SDK for

> each of the connected Android devices).

Reviewer: It might be helpful to explain how / link to how to configure, i.e. a reader might wonder how the client can obtain a valid value for `CLIENT_SERVER_HOST` at build time.

:::

### Configure network interfaces

> Ensure that device network/firewall configuration is set up so that the

Reviewer: Can we share any advice as to how to trouble shoot a misconfigured setup or how to quickly assess if it's working?
